# Spring-Annotations

Spring Annotations (also reffered to as HAS) is a Java library for generating controllers, services and repositories for CRUD operations and Authentication of Spring Boot applications. 

## @CRUD and @Endpoint Example
```
package com.example.has;

@Entity
@CRUD
public class Example {
  
  @Id
  private Long id;
  
  @Endpoint
  private String username;
  
  [Other fields]
  
  [Getters and Setters]
}
```

  The pre-requisites for running this piece of code without errors are:
  
    * The class must be annotated with javax.persistence.Entity
    * The class must have a field annotated iwth javax.persistence.Id
    
  This is all you need to generate all 4 CRUD operations for this entity.
  The @Endpoint annotation at `username` will create an endpoint on the controller for getting specifically this field's value.
  
### Customizations
  
  For @CRUD you can specify four different configurations that will be used to generate the classes:
    
  * `endpoint`: specifies which will be the endpoint of the CRUD operations for this entity. If not specified the class name converted to lower case will be used as default value.
  * `name`: specifies the name used for generating the classes (Generated classes names follow this pattern: prefix + name + suffix, all of these being able to be customized, I will explain how to customize prefix and suffix at @HASConfiguration topic). If not specified the class name will be used as default value.
  * `pagination`: specifies if the `getAll` method will be able to paginate or not the response. If not specified true will be used as default value.
  * `filter`: this configuration's value is another annotation (`@Filter`) of this library. This one have only two configurations:
    * `fields`: specifies which fields will be used for filtering. if not specified the `getAll` method won't be filterable.
    * `likeType`: specifies how to treat String comparison on query using `like` operator, the four possible values are: START, END, BOTH and NONE. if not specified BOTH will be used as default value.
        
  For @Endpoint you can only specify it's value. If not specified the field's name to lower case will be used as default value.
  
## @Authentication Example
```
package com.example.has;

@Authentication(secret = "MySecret", encoder = MyEncoder.class)
public class Example {
}
```

  The pre-requistes for running this piece of code without errors are:
  
   * Creating an encoder class that extends `org.springframework.security.crypto.password.PasswordEncoder`, in this example named `MyEncoder`.
   * Creating an implementation of `org.springframework.security.core.userdetails.UserDetailsService` using Spring Boot conventions.
    
  This is all you need to generate a JWT Authenticated Spring Boot Application.
  A few details before we go into customizations: 
  
  * If you configure @Authentication this way your whole application will need authentication to be accessed, except for `/login`.
  * If you want to configure request authorization you can create your own `WebSecurity` configuration class, the only things you need to implement are:
    * A autowired field of type `has.configurators.AuthenticationConfigurator`.
    * At `HttpSecurity` and `AuthenticationManagerBuilder` configure methods call `authenticationConfigurator.configure(object)` where `object` is the parameter of the above methods.
  * The default return for `/login` is a JSON containing:
    * `timestamp`: the date of the request in milliseconds.
    * `status`: the status of the response (OK or UNAUTHORIZED).
    * `token` or `error`: the token if the credentials were valid, otherwise will be "Could not  authenticate".
    * `message`: "Authenticated successfully" if the credentials were valid, otherwise will be the error raised.
  * All users won't have any authority.
  
### Customizations

  @Authentication have only four configurations (besides `secret` and `encoder`):
  
  * `expiration`: specifies the expiration time of the token in milliseconds. If not set one hour is used as default value.
  * `algorithm`: specifies the `SignatureAlgorithm` used for creating the JWT token. If not specified SignatureAlgorithm.HS512 is used as default value.
  * `authenticationSuccessHandler` and `authenticationFailureHandler`: specify classes that will handle the success and failure of authentication, they must extend `org.springframework.security.web.authentication.AuthenticationSuccessHandler` and `org.springframework.security.web.authentication.AuthenticationFailureHandler` respectively and both must have a public constructor that takes no arguments. If not specified two simple methods that return the JSON above are used as default.
  
## @HASConfiguration

  This one is an optional annotation that you can put anywhere on your application, it can configure:
  
  * `classesPrefix`: specifies autogenerated classes prefix. If not specified "AG" is used as default value.
  * `suffixes`: this configuration's value is another annotation (@Suffixes) that have three values: `repository`, `service` and `controller`, each of these set the suffix of each autogenerated classes of respective types. Default values are `Repository`, `Service` and `Controller` respectively.
  * `save`: specifies if the autogenerated classes must be created and saved (at `package` lifecycle) or created and used (at compile time). If not specified false is used as default value.
  * `savingOutput`: specifies in which folder (relative to project root) the autogenerated must be saved (if `save` is set to true). If not specified "src/main/java" is used as default value.
